In this section, we'll be talking about secondary dimensions, a straightforward,
critical and yet underutilized feature in GA. We always want to remember that
an important part of our role as analysts is to construct narratives to tell stories.
The basic story that we're trying to tell is what's working and what's not.
From there, we can hypothesize on what we can do to drive improvement.
In many cases, to tell a better story in our GA reports,
we want to apply secondary dimensions.
We can bring in other pieces of data relating to technology or
geography or acquisition to provide greater clarity.
Let's take a look at the mobile overview report as an example.
We can see that there are big differences in bounce rate and especially in
e-commerce conversion rate between
the three-dimension values: desktop, mobile and tablet.
As a basic optimization step,
I would want to see the end-user experience on these different device categories.
But at this point, I still would not have
quite enough information to know which device category to pick up.
The mobile overview report can be referred to as a low cardinality report,
meaning that there are not a lot of different values for the primary dimension,
in this case, there are only three.
The benefit of a low cardinality report is that we don't have to deal
with a lot of different rows and the data is relatively aggregated.
The downside is that we don't always have
the necessary detail to make actionable observations.
Now we might say, "Let's go over to the mobile
devices report for more granular information."
That wasn't a bad idea,
but the problem is that for the time period selected,
there are over 3,600 different rows in this report.
This is a high-cardinality report,
meaning that there are many values for a single dimension.
This can be useful when we need this level of granularity.
But sometimes it can be too detailed.
So let's take another approach.
We're going to go back to the mobile overview report.
We're going to apply a secondary dimension.
If we click on secondary dimension,
we could take advantage of read-ahead to
apply a secondary dimension that we already have in mind.
Now what we're seeing is something that's quite surprising.
Before we apply the operating system as a secondary dimension,
it looked like the e-commerce conversion rate for
desktop as a device category was healthy across the board.
But now we see that there's actually a stark difference between
e-commerce conversion rate for
Windows desktop and e-commerce conversion rate for Macintosh desktop.
Let's look at secondary dimensions in the landing pages report.
The landing pages report is already useful and that we can compare the different metrics
such as bounce rate and e-commerce conversion rate for the different landing pages.
But here too, this report we'll become more
actionable when we apply a secondary dimension.
A natural marriage of secondary dimension with
the landing page is one of the acquisition dimensions such as source medium.
So we can see before we apply a secondary dimension that
the e-commerce conversion rate for the homepage as a landing page is 2.85 percent.
If we add source medium and filter for home as the primary dimension,
now we're telling a much richer story.
We're seeing that the different sources of traffic that are
driving to the same homepage are
actually performing very differently in terms
of bounce rate and e-commerce conversion rate.
We see that we potentially have the opportunity to drive more traffic to
the homepage from those sources that are generating a high e-commerce conversion rate.
On the other side of the coin,
we see that Google CPC as a source medium AdWords,
driving to the homepage is not really showing an outstanding e-commerce conversion rate.